Release notes for 4.2.0 (#13774)
docker/docker.github.io: desktop/mac/release-notes/index.md

This page contains information about the new features, improvements, known issues, and bug fixes in Docker Desktop releases.

## Docker Desktop 4.2.0
2021-11-xx

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> [Mac with Intel chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/amd64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-amd64){: .button .primary-btn }
> [Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn }

> ### New

Reviewer: nit: can you add a blank line after? (mostly for consistency; I think it usually works without, but we had some cases where it caused rendering issues)

```suggestion
### New

```

> - **Pause/Resume**: Save your battery with Docker Pause / Resume! For more information, see [Docker Pause](https://docs.docker.com/go/desktop-pause/).

Reviewer: The `/go/xxx` links are intended to be used for "in-product" links, but in the docs itself, we should use the direct link to the page/section.

Looks like this content will be added in https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/pull/13776, so perhaps we should combine both PRs.

With https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/pull/13776 in place, this should then become;

```suggestion
- **Pause/Resume**: Save your battery with Docker Pause / Resume! For more information, see [Docker Pause](../index.md#pauseresume).
```

Also wondering if we should use `Docker Pause` as caption for the link, as it may be confused with the [`docker pause` subcommand](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/pause/).

Perhaps "the pause/resume section in the user manual"

```suggestion
- **Pause/Resume**: Save your battery with Docker Pause / Resume! For more information, see the [pause/resume section](../index.md#pauseresume) in the user manual.
```

Reviewer 2: **Pause/Resume**: You can now pause your Docker Desktop session when you are not actively using it and save CPU resources on your machine. For more information, see [Pause/Resume](../index.md#pauseresume).

> - **Software Updates**: More clear settings section as all update related settings are moved to update section and now also available for free tier users. The update popup to prompt for a new version has been removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Software Updates**: The option to turn off automatic check for updates is now available for users on all Docker subscriptions, including Docker Personal and Docker Pro. All update-related settings have been moved to the **Software Updates** section. For more information, see [Software updates](../index.md#software-updates).

> - **Window Management**: Dashboard window size/position is persisted/restored on closing/opening.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Window management**: The Docker Dashboard window size and position persists when you close and reopen Docker Desktop.
```

### Upgrades

- [Docker Engine v20.10.10](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#201010)
- [containerd v1.4.11](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.11)
- [runc v1.0.2](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.2)
- [Go 1.17.2](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)
- [Compose CLI v2.1.0](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/tree/v1.0.18)

> - docker-scan 0.9.0

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to add a link to this?

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Improved: Self-diagnose now also checks for overlap between host IPs and `docker networks`.

> - Fixed position of update available indicator in dashboard window header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed the position of the indicator that displays the availability of an update on the Docker Dashboard.
```

> - Fixed Docker Desktop sometimes hanging when clicking Exit in the fatal error dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue that caused Docker Desktop to stop responding upon clicking **Exit** on the fatal error dialog.
```

This page contains information about the new features, improvements, known issues, and bug fixes in Docker Desktop releases.

## Docker Desktop 4.2.0

> 2021-11-xx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2021-11-08
```

> [Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/main/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn }

### New

- **Pause/Resume**: You can now pause your Docker Desktop session when you are not actively using it and save CPU resources on your machine. For more information, see [Pause/Resume](../index.md#pauseresume).
- **Software Updates**: The option to turn off automatic check for updates is now available for users on all Docker subscriptions, including Docker Personal and Docker Pro. All update-related settings have been moved to the **Software Updates** section. For more information, see [Software updates](../index.md#software-updates).
- **Window management**: The Docker Dashboard window size and position persists when you close and reopen Docker Desktop.

### Upgrades

- [Docker Engine v20.10.10](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#201010)
- [containerd v1.4.11](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.11)
- [runc v1.0.2](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.2)
- [Go 1.17.2](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)

> - [Compose CLI v2.1.1](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/tree/v1.0.21)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Compose v2.1.1](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.1.1)
```

Reviewer 4: Yes, I don’t think we’ve documented compose-cli releases in the past.

- [docker-scan 0.9.0](https://github.com/docker/scan-cli-plugin/releases/tag/v0.9.0)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Improved: Self-diagnose now also checks for overlap between host IPs and `docker networks`.
- Fixed the position of the indicator that displays the availability of an update on the Docker Dashboard.
- Fixed an issue that caused Docker Desktop to stop responding upon clicking **Exit** on the fatal error dialog.
- Fixed a rare startup failure affecting users having a `docker volume` bind-mounted on top of a directory from the host. If existing, this fix will also remove manually user added `DENY DELETE` ACL entries on the corresponding host directory.
- Fixed a bug where a `Docker.qcow2` file would be ignored on upgrade and a fresh `Docker.raw` used instead, resulting in containers and images disappearing. Note that if a system has both files (due to the previous bug) then the most recently modified file will be used, to avoid recent containers and images disappearing again. To force the use of the old `Docker.qcow2`, delete the newer `Docker.raw` file. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5998](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5998).

> - Fixed a bug where subprocesses could fail unexpectedly during shutdown, triggering an unexpected fatal error popup.

Reviewer 3: I think we should link to ticket https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5834

This page contains information about the new features, improvements, known issues, and bug fixes in Docker Desktop releases.

## Docker Desktop 4.2.0
2021-11-xx

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> [Mac with Intel chip](??: .button .primary-btn }

> > [Mac with Apple chip](??: .button .primary-btn }

Reviewer 5: I think here it's missing the link isn't it?

Reviewer 3: Yes, these lines should be copied from lines 57-58 (from 4.1.1) to have the correct links for the latest release.
And then lines 57-58 need to be updated like lines 73-74 without UTM, but with the build number for 4.1.1.

### New
- **Pause/Resume**: Docker Desktop can be paused/resumed. For more information, see [Docker Pause](https://docs.docker.com/go/desktop-pause/).

### Upgrades

> - [Docker Engine v20.10.9](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#20109)

Reviewer 3: I think we have the PR for v20.10.10 merged.

- [containerd v1.4.11](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.4.11)
- [runc v1.0.2](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/releases/tag/v1.0.2)
- [Go 1.17.2](https://golang.org/doc/go1.17)
- [Compose CLI v2.0.1](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/tree/v2)
- docker-scan 0.9.0

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Improved UI: All update related settings are moved to update section and now also available for free tier users.

> - Improved UI: Dashboard window size/position is persited/restored on closing/opening [for-mac#5847](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5847).

Reviewer 6: persisted

- Improved: Self-diagnose now also checks for overlap between host IPs and `docker networks`.

> - Removed: Interruptive update popup to inform users about a new Docker Desktop version.

Reviewer 6: This shouldn't be a minor change. We should promote having reworked the updates UI as a major change, as in the blog post.

Reviewer 7: I might suggest we also avoid calling it interruptive!

Author: Re-worked the wording.

- Fixed position of update available indicator in dashboard window header.
- Fixed Docker Desktop sometimes hanging when clicking Exit in the fatal error dialog.

> - Fixed rare startup failure when a `docker volume` is bind-mounted on top of a directory mounted from the host. We now unconditionally remove any `DENY DELETE` ACL entries found on the host directory corresponding to the `docker volume` mountpoint in the VM.

Reviewer 6: This needs to be explained from the user pov not the pov of the underlying technology.

Author: @djs55 could you help me with that? I think it was your PR.

Reviewer 8: I think the only way to simplify it is to drop information (which we can do)

Here's the info in order of importance:

1. we fixed a rare startup failure
    - we should probably keep this :)
2. the bug only affected you if you had a `docker volume` bind-mounted on top of a directory  mounted from the host
    -  we could drop this, but users might want to know who this bug could have affected / whether this was a bug they experienced
3. the bug fix itself has an observable side-effect: if the user has added their own `DENY DELETE` macOS ACL entries to their files (as they can do if they want), then we will remove those silently.
    - we could drop this, but it's a user-visible negative side-effect of the fix, although hopefully a rare one in practice

Author: Thank you @djs55! Your explanation makes a lot of sense and helped me to rephrase the release notes! Maybe double check if it now still contains the message, but I think so.
